---
layout: post
title: Out with the old, in with the older.
excerpt: Did you know FDR has a connection to Union?
modified: 2/29/2016, 9:00:24
tags: [digital humanities, beginner, jekyll]
comments: true
category: blog
---

##The Capital Region is overlooked.
I love living in Upstate New York.  Part of that is due to the fact that I have access to so much history -- 
albeit a lot of the early documents are white-washed and tend to cater to men.   While this may be true, 
there is still a lot to uncover and unpack if you know where to search.  For example, the founding of <a href="https://www.emmawillard.org/">Emma Willard School</a> in 1814 (located in Troy, NY) speaks wonders about females at the time.  Access to the archives 
of places like this -- which is very easy, archivists love sharing their knowledge -- allows for a greater 
understanding of any period of time.  For example, Emma Willard pitched the idea of the  <a href="https://www.britannica.com/topic/Troy-Female-Seminary">Troy Female Seminary</a>
as a way to allow eventual mothers to be able to better educate their sons while pushing for education for women!  
Even when documents cater to certain types of individuals, you can also find a narrative about those who are 
casually mentioned in passing or entirely excluded. 

By using the resources available, you can bring the past back to life.  Images such as maps, drawings, and 
photographs, are able to contextualize what one is reading, while words that are no longer commonly used can 
be easily defined.  Information such as this is able to enhance the text and provides a road map, allowing 
for easier mental navigation of materials.  In addition to this, it can allow the reader to be more in touch 
with what the environment was like when the document was constructed.  

##Benefits of the second-oldest college in New York
Given that Union is an old institution (don't worry, 226 looks great on the college), we have access to 
records from the time that George Washington was still president, from when the Civil War raged, the Great 
Depression, and so on.  As Jonathan Pearson was located at or around Schenectady for the majority of his l
ife, we can truly explore the world he found himself in.  On another note, I wonder if he knew FDR's father, <a href="xhttps://www.nps.gov/people/james-roosevelt.htm">James Roosevelt I,</a> who graduated from Union in 1847! 
