---
layout: post
title: Where AI falls short.
excerpt: To use or not to use, that is the question.
modified: 2/29/2016, 9:00:24
tags: [digital humanities, beginner, jekyll, history]
comments: true
category: blog
---

## Computers are, of course, helpful.

This goes without being said.  I just finished a practice reading comprehension section for the LSAT that discussed the introduction of AI to courtrooms, but it also discussed the flaws involved.  Many of the flaws discussed in that passage relate directly to what the flaws are with CTA: AI lacks an understanding of human elements that we take into account.  If it isn't in the programming, then the computer is unable to do that, leading to a flawed understanding of the data it is processing.

This is very important when you're trying to understand the true meaning of a word, as what surrounds it can decide what the word actually means (did I 'fall,' was it 'fall,' or did I visit a water 'fall'?)  With this being said, it's best to use CTA while keeping in mind the shortcomings it has.  we read for reasoning and understanding -- it cannot do that.  It's also ser important to understand that there may be biases in the programming that we don't totally know about and that could influence our data. Yet, when you're sorting through a million words, it is a very helpful and necessary tool to use to get information quick!  There's nothing wrong with that, but it's important to understand that it's only a partial view of the entire picture. 
